README.md, before:

# About 

_Are credit allocation models discriminatory ? The American experiment_

This is a year-long academic project carried out during the first year of my master's degree, with two other students.

## Abstract 
In this paper, we aim to assess the fairness of American credit allocation models used by financial institutions to evaluate a loan application. Our data gathers a comprehensive sample of loan applications for each state of the United States, in 2022, taken from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. We use a logistic model to analyze the probability of credit denial among individuals according to their sex and their race, and controlling for financial variables and the age. We first focus on Michigan and we then extend our study to all the other states of the United States. Our study demonstrates that credit allocation models are discriminating. We do not show great evidence of gender discrimination but we reveal a racial discrimination in the sense where Asians, Afro-Americans, and Natives are more likely to get their application rejected. Namely, on average in the United States in 2022, being Black increases the probability of being denied a loan by 10 percentage points, compared to being White.

Commit message:

Update project description in README
Expanded project description to include supervision and defense details.

README.md, after:

# About 

_Are credit allocation models discriminatory ? The American experiment_

This is a year-long academic project carried out during the first year of my master's degree, with two other students and under the supervision of a professor. The project was defended in front of two professors.

## Abstract 
In this paper, we aim to assess the fairness of American credit allocation models used by financial institutions to evaluate a loan application. Our data gathers a comprehensive sample of loan applications for each state of the United States, in 2022, taken from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. We use a logistic model to analyze the probability of credit denial among individuals according to their sex and their race, and controlling for financial variables and the age. We first focus on Michigan and we then extend our study to all the other states of the United States. Our study demonstrates that credit allocation models are discriminating. We do not show great evidence of gender discrimination but we reveal a racial discrimination in the sense where Asians, Afro-Americans, and Natives are more likely to get their application rejected. Namely, on average in the United States in 2022, being Black increases the probability of being denied a loan by 10 percentage points, compared to being White.
